Basic (GUI)

If your an inexperienced programmer the manager windowprovides a quick and easy way to 
create new data and add properties. The manager can only define int, float and strings 
for your properties, however you can use the manager while you get to grips with the 
advanced functions if you want to save more complex non monobehaviour data.

The manager window is comprised of three sections, data list, property list and 
settings. The data list holds all your data classes they are the classes to be saved.
The property list holds all the properties of the selected data in the data list. 
The settings area allows for the input of the root path of the saved data, the data 
type that is desired (binary,xml) and runtime options like automatic loads and saves. 
Also there are buttons to save or load a data item manually.

You can add a new data type by clicking the plus button at the top of the data list, 
you will be prompted to enter a new name for the data but can leave it as the default 
data name. To edit a data item you can click on the pencil button next to the plus button. 
To remove data you can click on the minus button at the top on the other side of the plus 
button, this removes the currently selected data item and selects the previous data item
in the list.

You can add a new property to the selected data by clicking on the plus button at the top 
of the properties list, you will be prompted to enter a new name for the data and a default
value. To edit the selected property you can click on the pencil button next to the plus 
button. To remove a property click on the minus button on the other side of the plus button. 
the text you enter into the value of a property is dynamic, so if you enter letters and 
characers, the GetProperty method returns a string variable, if a whole number is entered 
returns a int variable and if a decimal number is entered returns a float.

To set the root folder where the your data is saved click the button next to the root option 
on the right of the window. You can save as binary or xml, select the type to want from
the drop down menu next to the type option. Binary file types provide a file that is readable 
only by a computer. XML file types however are readable and can be updated using most text
editing software. 

The save and load buttons are to manually serialize data and their properties. Unlike the save 
on quit and run on load options which load and save all the data within the data list these 
buttons allow you to save and load data individually. You can achieve the same result at 
runtime using the correct commands through script.

To be able to automatically save and load on application run and quit use these options. Load 
on run enables your build to automatically load the entire data list into the game when
launced. Save on quit enables your build to save the entire data list and its changes when 
the application is exited.





























 

